# Quantum color image edge detection algorithm based on Sobel operator

**Authors:** Suzhen Yuan, Xianli Li, Shuyin Xia, Xianrong Qing, Jermiah D. Deng

## Abstract
Edge detection is a preprocessing step in image processing that directly affects the effectiveness of subsequent image processing. However, real-time image preprocessing is challenging to achieve with the increased number and quality of images. Therefore, this paper studies a quantum color image spatial edge detection algorithm and uses the International Business Machines Quantum (IBM Q) quantum simulation platform to simulate and verify the designed quantum circuit. First, the quantum adder, quantum subtractor, quantum maximum value calculation module, and quantum threshold operation module are optimized. Then, based on these modules, a new quantum edge detection algorithm is designed. Finally, the analysis shows that compared with existing related work, the algorithm in this paper has lower circuit complexity and fewer qubits, reducing the circuit complexity from $O(n^{2}+q^{3})$ to $O(q)$. Finally, the proposed algorithm is simulated on the IBM Q quantum simulator, which can effectively detect the edge information of quantum color images.

**Keywords:** Quantum color image processing, Image edge detection algorithm, Quantum image simulation

# 1 Introduction
Digital image processing is a process of processing, analyzing, and changing digital images using computer technology. With the sharp increase in image data volume, the real-time problem of image processing algorithms has become a limitation of the current technical level. Since state-of-the-art algorithms often have overwhelming computational complexity, finding better ways to store and process digital images with high precision and high real-time performance is necessary. Quantum image processing has essential advantages such as parallelism and superposition and can perform more calculations simultaneously, effectively solving the above problems.

Before processing quantum images, the first step is to consider how to store classical image data in a quantum computer. Therefore, the primary task of quantum image processing is storing quantum images. In 2003, Venegas-Andraca first proposed the image representation model of Qubit Lattice [1]. On this basis, subsequent researchers proposed flexible representation of quantum images (FQRI) [2], the novel enhanced quantum representation (NEQR) [3], the generalized quantum image representation (GQIR) [4], the novel quantum representation of color digital images (NCQI) [5], an optimized quantum representation for color digital images (OCQR) [6]. FRQI stores the grayscale information of an image in the probability amplitude of a single qubit, which has fewer parameters for manipulation in the design of image processing algorithms, making it unsuitable for designing complex image processing algorithms. NEQR stores grayscale information in the ground states of multiple qubits but cannot store quantum color images. Although NCQI can represent color images, it uses many multi-qubit control gates, leading to high complexity in image preparation. OCQR is a further optimization of NCQI, which can store color images on quantum circuits with relatively fewer qubits. Therefore, this paper adopts the OCQR model to represent quantum color imagery.

Based on these quantum image representation models, various quantum image processing algorithms have been proposed, such as image segmentation [7-9], image filtering [10-13], image scrambling [14, 15], image geometric transformation [16-18], image encryption [19, 20], and image edge detection [21-35]. Regarding the quantum image edge detection algorithm based on the Sobel operator, Zhang et al. proposed QSobel based on the FRQI representation model [21]. Fan et al. proposed a quantum edge detection scheme based on the NEQR model [24]. Zhou et al. proposed a quantum image edge detection algorithm using Sobel operators in four directions based on the GQIR representation model [26]. Chetia optimized Zhou's algorithm based on the NEQR representation model [27]. Ma et al. subsequently proposed a NEQR quantum image edge detection algorithm based on the eight-directional Sobel operator [30], and Liu et al. improved the algorithm proposed by Ma et al. [31]. However, these edge detection algorithms based on the Sobel operator only work on grayscale images and cannot be applied to color images. Among them, reference [27], reference [30], and reference [31] achieve the functional implementation of edge detection. Still, they do not complete the overall circuit design for edge detection, so they require multiple measurements and extra qubits to complete the design. More importantly, these methods suffer from a vast circuit complexity burden and require many auxiliary qubits. Therefore, this paper proposes a Sobel operator-based edge detection algorithm for quantum color images, which overcomes these problems.

Based on the OCQR model, this paper proposes an edge detection algorithm suitable for quantum color images. The contributions of this paper are as follows:
(1) An efficient row-by-row image preparation method is used to prepare color images.
(2) Basic operational modules such as quantum adders, quantum comparators, and quantum subtractors with lower circuit complexity are adopted to construct the edge detection algorithm.
(3) The algorithm's feasibility is verified through simulations on the IBM Quantum Experience (IBM Q) platform. Compared with other quantum edge detection algorithms, this algorithm has a lower circuit complexity and requires fewer ancillary qubits.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 discusses storing a color image based on the OCQR model, and Sect. 3 builds the quantum edge detection circuit for color images. Section 4 performs the simulation experiment on the IBM Q platform, and finally, Sect. 5 concludes this work.
