# Quantum color image median filtering in the spatial domain: theory and experiment

**Authors:** Suzhen Yuan, Xianrong Qing, Bo Hang, Hong Qu

## Abstract
Median filters are widely used to smooth data in image processing tasks and eliminate noise with extremely large or small magnitude. Thus, this paper proposes a median filtering method for quantum color images in the spatial domain, with the corresponding quantum circuit simulated on IBM the Quantum Experience (IBM Q) platform. In our technique, first, we improve the quantum color image storage module and adopt nine quantum color images to represent the core image (image to be processed) and its 8-neighborhoods. Then, a quantum comparator and a quantum control swap operation with low time complexity are employed to design the quantum median calculation module. Finally, we design the quantum circuit for color image median filtering, simulated on the IBM Q platform. Compared with existing methods, the proposed method's time complexity is significantly reduced from $O(q^{2})$ to $O(q)$ and the auxiliary qubit is reduced from $O(q)$ to $O(1)$. The developed scheme provides the framework for encoding the neighborhood information of pixels in supplementary images and reduces the auxiliary qubits and time complexity, demonstrating the potential of quantum image processing for highly efficient image and video processing tasks in the big data era.

**Keywords:** Quantum color image processing, Median filtering algorithm, Quantum image simulation

# 1 Introduction

Currently, image processing is a rapidly developing technology, with the quantum computing and image processing combination gaining significant research attention. Processing images with quantum computers starts with the classic encoding of images into quantum states, while, later, many quantum image representation models have been proposed. In 2003, Venegas-Andraca proposed for the first time the image representation model of Qubit Lattice-based on a Qubit array [1]. Spurred by this research breakthrough, several works extended it and suggested various models such as the flexible representation of quantum images (FQRI) [2], the novel enhanced quantum representation (NEQR) [3], an n-qubit normal arbitrary superposition state (NASS) [4], the improved novel enhanced quantum representation (INEQR) [5], the generalized quantum image representation (GQIR) [6], the novel quantum representation of color digital images (NCQI) [7], an optimized quantum representation for color digital images (OCQR) [8] model, and a quantum hue, saturation, and lightness color model (QHSL) [9]. Compared with other quantum color image representation models, OCQR can flexibly manipulate pixels and requires fewer qubits. Therefore, this paper adopts the OCQR model to represent quantum color imagery.

Based on these quantum image representation models, various quantum image processing algorithms have been proposed, such as geometric transformation [10-12], image scaling [5, 6, 13], image morphology processing [14, 15], image segmentation [16, 17], image encryption [18-21], image scrambling [22], image watermarking [23], image compression [24] and image filtering [25-33]. Considering the frequency domain filtering, in [25], the authors develop the image frequency domain filtering algorithm that is based on the quantum Fourier transform, which has already been extended to facilitate color images [26]. Both methods use the quantum Fourier transform and quantum Oracle to achieve highly efficient frequency domain filtering. However, the functional module represented by quantum Oracle does not involve a specific quantum circuit, and thus, it is impossible to verify whether the algorithm is feasible. Therefore, this kind of algorithm has certain limitations. Regarding the space domain, Yuan et al. [27, 28] suggest quantum image filtering based on an adder operation and multiplier operation, respectively, while other works utilize mean filtering [29], median filtering [30], improved median filtering [31], and quantum midpoint filtering [33]. However, these space domain algorithms only perform filtering operations on grayscale images rather than color images. More importantly, these methods suffer from an extensive time complexity burden and require many auxiliary qubits. Thus, this paper proposes a spatial domain filtering algorithm for quantum color images that overcomes these problems.

This paper suggests a novel median filtering algorithm appropriate for quantum color images based on the OCQR model. The contributions of this paper are as follows: 
(1) The image storage quantum circuit based on the OCQR model is optimized, enhancing multi-image representation. 
(2) Compared with current median filtering algorithms, the proposed algorithm presents a lower time complexity and requires much fewer auxiliary qubits. 
(3) The proposed algorithm is simulated on IBM Quantum Experience (IBM Q) platform, proving its feasibility.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Sect. 2 discusses the storage of a color image based on the OCQR model, and Sect. 3 builds the quantum circuit of median filtering for quantum color imagery. Section 4 performs the simulation experiment on IBMQ, and finally, Sect. 5 concludes this work.
