**Fig. 17** **a**, **f** the original image; **b**, **g** edge detection results of the "R" channel; **c**, **h** Results after edge detection of the "G" channel. **d**, **i** edge detection results of the "B" channel; **e**, **j** The result of integrated edge detection

Peppers and Baboon, with a size of $512 \times 512$, are selected as the input of the color image edge detection circuit. The quantum backend "simulator_stabilizer" is chosen for this experiment, and each color image is measured 3.2 million times. However, the maximum number of measurements on IBM Q is 20,000 times. Therefore, the entire circuit is repeated 16 times to obtain all the information and restore the classical filtered image information. The final result of the whole circuit is 1,048,576 strings, so the probability histogram cannot be displayed. Due to the large size of the image and the long queue time of the IBM Q backend, it took 3.5 h to complete the edge detection of the image. As shown in Fig. 17, it can be seen that the edge detection results of the classical color image are the same as those of the quantum edge detection algorithm in this paper, and the algorithm complexity $O(q)$ is much lower than that of the classical color image edge detection algorithm $O(2^{2n})$.

## 5 Conclusion

This paper proposes a quantum color image edge detection algorithm based on the OCQR representation pattern and simulates it on the IBM Q platform. The specific work is as follows: first, various modules that make up the overall circuit, such as quantum adders, quantum subtractors, quantum maximum value calculation modules, and quantum threshold operation modules, are optimized using the reset gate. Based on these basic functional modules, a new edge detection algorithm based on an improved Sobel operator is designed. Through analysis, compared with the existing related work, it has lower circuit complexity and uses fewer qubits. The circuit complexity is reduced from $O(n^2 + q^3)$ to $O(q)$, and it can also process quantum color images. Therefore, the proposed quantum circuit helps simulate the proposed algorithm on the IBM Q simulator, and the experiment shows that the algorithm can effectively detect details in quantum color images.
